---
layout: post
title:  "An arbitrary MH23 write-up"
date:   2023-02-02 05:30:00 +0530
---

So... That was one of the Mystery Hunts of all time. There were awesome things, there were annoying things, and then there were eh things. This is me talking about things.[^1] Some of these things have been said better (Case in point, see [Betaveros' blog post](https://blog.vero.site/post/2023-hunt) where I agree with most of what is said)

For context, I solved with my usual squad, [The Mathemagicians](https://www.puzzles.wiki/wiki/The_Mathemagicians) (previously Team Arithmancy). We started in MH21 and solved 50-60ish puzzles, then were roughly 38th at MH22, and now solved \~75 puzzles to come in \~30th. We were almost entirely online (Between 1-2 people on site).

This post will have general structural spoilers (what unlocks after what), mild plot spoilers, names of puzzles/rounds, as well as small spoilers for older MHs. It will not have puzzle spoilers without tags like <span class="spoiler">this</span>. Just hover over them to view.

**Important note** - The names of certain rounds are spoilers for [Reactivation](https://puzzlefactory.place/factory-floor/reactivation). The names have been spoilered, but be warned.

[^1]: I have been known to be a grumpy solver, so fair warning. I tend to talk on about things I do not enjoy more than the average person.

## No Spoilers - Things that left me wanting

* **NOT the overall difficulty.** Enough people have spoken about this already. But frankly, I didn't care. It was longer or harder, sure. So was [Teammate 21](https://2021.teammatehunt.com/) compared to literally every non-MH hunt I have ever solved. It took effort to solve yeah. But such is the life of MH. I wish the hunt just went for a full week (Wild, but I'd dig it). Or that there weren't as many answerbergs. But shit happens. I had a blast. And I loved the difficulty, so there's that.

* **The Puzzle width.** We're by no means a "small" team or without our share of strong solvers. But seeing us time and again with less than 5-10 puzzles open was... sad. I personally LOVED the "drowning in puzzles" feeling of MH21 and hated the "1 puzzle width" of mid-MH22.[^11] But mostly, I just wanted our team to see every puzzle, even if we had no hopes of finishing. So seeing Reactivation block all the AI puzzles (with no way to get past that even artificially) was unfortunate. In the end, we solved Reactivation 1 hour before hunt close, and slow solved our way the next week.

[^11]: Incidentally, I absolutely absolutely loved the optional unlock using button of MH22, because it allowed teams to "not drown in puzzles" if they wanted, but see more puzzles if width was a concern. It was perfect if you were behind enough, as most teams do.

* **The solutions.** I might be the tiniest majority ever in the puzzlehunt community, but I absolutely adore good solutions. As in, I really loved how indepth Teammate 21 went with its solutions ([link to](https://2021.teammatehunt.com/solutions/the-shooting-gallery) "The Shooting Gallery" solution). I was blown away by [QOPH having the most detailed solutions ever](https://hunts.timwi.de/qoph)[^18]. To me, Hunt solutions are at least 30% of the entire whole, and not an afterthought. Hunts should not cater only to those who already know how "Cave puzzles" or "Cryptic clues" or numerous other "regular topics" work, but also to those learning those.[^4] And the best way to do that, is solutions. I wish this hunt had better solutions.

[^18]: Seriously, they're so good that everyone should use them as their de facto "teach newcomers" tool. I just simply love QOPH solutions, even though I don't expect other hunts to reach the same standards.

[^4]: And then maybe someday I'd stop bifurcating on every logic puzzle and/or just throwing cryptic clues into google and praying. It's the only way I know how to do those, and I would like to learn more.

* **The lack of Fish puzzles.** Enough has been said about the initial puzzles being hard. I still think there ought to have been a full round (or an equivalent number) of puzzles being dedicatedly "[Fish](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2015/toc.html)" or "[Students](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2021/round/students/)" difficulty. Not every team has supersolvers-stacked, and seeing a new person get a "win" by themselves is amazing. I believe this is less a factor of "testsolve calibration" (something I know literally nothing about) and more "overall hunt design" philosophies.

* **Some puzzles.** I did not enjoy grunt work on a few puzzles at all, especially when it came with no satisfying payoff at the end. Other puzzles, I thought, made the extractions extremely convoluted to try and make it "fancy". I think there was scope for several puzzles to be "cleaner" and "more satisfying", though I can't say what it means for "setting" vs "editing". Naming some puzzles in the reference below.[^13] [^14] [^15]

[^13]: ([Moral of the Story](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/moral-of-the-story)) <span class="spoiler">I didn't enjoy the core mechanic of this puzzle. The extraction was too long and painful for us. I wish we had a "bigger payoff" somewhere in the puzzle.</span> 

[^14]: ([Street Smarts](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/street-smarts)) <span class="spoiler">The extraction felt frustrating for me. "Some streets have 1 clue backwards" introduced ambiguity, which combined with the extraction method, forced you to find (practically) all locations. For a physical puzzle, this exacerbated issues (It's easy to miss things, doublechecking is hard, grunt work is more painful, and teams will be limited in who can go around)</span>

[^15]: ([[REDACTED]'S Request - The Meta](https://puzzlefactory.place/factory-floor/conjuris-request)) <span class="spoiler">For the round, having one person make the "Hardener mistake" was an irrevocable penalty for the whole team. For the meta, I think the extraction was too convoluted. There were too many variables that could only be gathered by doing grunt work that took time and was fairly painful. I wish it'd just been simplified more so it feels less "needle in a haystack"</span>

## No Spoilers - Things that could be "cooler"

* **The "cool rounds" being late heavy.** I loved seeing [Infinite Corridor](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2021/round/infinite/) as a first time team in MH21. As a middling-team person who loves creative tasks, I was sad to miss out on all of [New You City](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2022/round/new-you-city/) in MH22. As a "slightly better middling team" this year, seeing [Innovation](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/hall-of-innovation) on the bit late side, and practically not seeing <span class="spoiler">Wyrm [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/wyrmhole) or Conjuri [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/conjuris-quest) or Ascent [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/ascent)</span> at all was.. sad. I wish the structure was thought through wrt these ideas more.

* **The Interactions.** Mystery Hunt is hard to host, and teams have an infinite number of things on their plates. But one thing that stood out to me the most over the last couple years, is that teams have actual "interactions" with the hosts, which sounds hella cool. We missed out on having those MH21 and I deeply cherished the ones we got in MH22.[^2] [^3] I was hoping getting past Reactivation would unlock something like that (It's either 2/3rds or 1/2th of the hunt), but instead we just got another AI "interaction". I wish we'd gotten humans. We eventually just scheduled an online check-up ourselves.[^10]

[^2]: Had we missed out on them, some Palindrome members even promised to act out "interactions" using popsicles, which was the sweetest thing ever <3

[^3]: We got one "skit" interaction, and one "chatting as chill friends" type interaction. I loved both of them, but the latter even more.

[^10]: I have now been informed that solving Reactivation earned you an in-person interaction. So either we were too late for it (an hour before deadline) or too online for it. Either way, :c I still kinda wish we'd gotten another chance to interact with Teammate earlier too, but this is good to know.

* A very minor thing, but **hinting**. We were waiting on a couple hints for about 40+ mins. That bottlenecked everything else that was waiting on hints. I don't think I've heard anyone else have trouble with hints, and I found all hint replies actually helpful though, so it's just one minor blip in an otherwise flawless system, I hear.

* **Some QoL** that I'd find exceedingly helpful, in no particular order[^5]... Knowing which puzzle the "submitted hint" is on. Getting more ways to communicate to the teams than "mail captains+team email id"[^6]. Having a "All your known puzzles are always on this page" page.[^7] Being able to navigate between rounds better.[^8] Here's also a list of **QoL that teammate nailed** and I wanted to bring up... Knowing the exact time until next answer submission. The colour picker thingy on puzzles with accessibility concerns. Copy to clipboard. Knowing exactly which puzzles were IRL.[^9] 

[^5]: Yes, I know how much effort these take to implement. Or maybe I don't, I still have not worked on a full puzzlehunt yet. But to me, the little QoL and "care" things matter almost as much as the "big picture". I think hunts are about the whole experience, and not just the "Here be cool puzzles", so any accessibility (and more) matter.

[^6]: In our case, we lucked out because I was captain and almost forever online + Our team mail is shared across 4+ folks. But I don't remember seeing any clean ways for any "communication" ("updates" page, or "way to add more email ids"), so everything was bottlenecked on those two sources.

[^7]: While there was a "List of puzzles" pages this year, the Museum page not showing Factory left us withs a non-zero amount of frustration for our team when jumping puzzles.

[^8]: I could usually figure out Museum to Rounds and mostly Museum to Factory, but Factory to Rounds or Factory to Museum often ended up being frustrating. To that end, I ended up just giving up and using All puzzles page at all times.

[^9]: For us specifically (Like 50 strong, but only 1 IRL solver for the entire hunt), this was a gargantuan life saver. We knew exactly which puzzles to focus on, and how much.

## Some tagged Spoilers - Things I found awesome

Because of how I solved this year, I got to see a lot of puzzles (just not "deep enough" everywhere). So I'll fangirl over quite a few puzzles (but there's still a few puzzles I completely missed and/or puzzles we've yet to post-forward-solve).

* **The story and art.** It was nice, it was pretty, it was fun. I'm not the biggest fan of the entire "vote for chat" interaction presented[^12], but enough folks in my team (and outside) really enjoyed them. It was a clever addition, and something enough people loved. I loved all the emojis this gave us \<3 I loved the "feel" every round had, distinctly. These are things Teammate has done well before, and nailed very well this year.

[^12]: Or more specifically, I'm a fan of them but not as a substitute for full interactions.

* The puzzle **[To Numbers and Back Again](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/to-numbers-and-back-again)**. As a native Hindi speaker/someone who can "read" Sanskrit very badly, this puzzle was "made for me". I've often seen people talk about "This puzzle is about things I enjoy", and I've been that person before. But this puzzle perfectly touched a LOT of "Oh hey I remember this thing from childhood" which was WILD. <span class="spoiler">And above all that, it was just a good, very well made MH puzzle. It wasn't a puzzle "about" Indic things, it was a puzzle that fully integrated them into mechanics. I "loved" how many hints the puzzle gave at different points (with flavour and messages). I love how much alphabetisation was done to make things confirming. I love the absolute diversity of the puzzle topic, because this one just dared to go "Oh hey, this puzzle is about Sanskrit, it'll be deep, just buckle up". It's what I love the most about MH puzzles, and this one was just... really freaking good.</span> This puzzle is among my top MH puzzles of this year, maybe even all time for sure.[^16]

[^16]: Having seen non-Indic people struggle with the puzzle now, I wish they'd clued the initial steps of all subpuzzles more. Other than that, I really really love this.

* The puzzle **[Showcase](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/showcase)**. This was another puzzle "made for me". The logic puzzles were good, I had fun, <span class="spoiler"> and the twist" had me cackling. I have a special place in my heart for coding and ACM ICPC, so seeing it in a puzzle was really freaking cool. Even cooler was seeing how "integrated" the puzzle was, from using ICPC problems, to literally embedding things in the stream. I may not have solved much of the puzzle, but this was hype af, and I enjoyed every second of it.</span>[^17]

[^17]: Free nostalgia trip down memory lane... <span class="spoiler">About 10 years ago, me and like 10-12 of us grew my college's "coding culture". We were decent maybe even quite good, but we were only the "first generation" of coders from our very new campus. So participating in ACM ICPC (India Regionals) two years in a row was a big thing for me. We weren't super "good" (and definitely nowhere near World Finalist/GM level most other puzzle-hunters seem to be), but we had fun, and we grew our "culture". And so it was super-hype when some of our juniors finally actually reached World Finals.</span> What I'm saying is... This puzzle meant something special to my heart, and I loved it for it.

* The puzzle **[Terminal](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/terminal)**. This is another puzzle that'll very likely go into my list of "all time MH classics", and possibly the only one where <span class="spoiler">I 100% agree with the author making the puzzle "harder" for greater "Oh shit" impact.</span> "Intricate puzzles with a simple mechanic"[^20] are my bread-and-butter, in that I absolutely love them when it pulls together well. Lotus puzzles[^19] are probably going to be my favourite type of puzzle for a long time. This happened to somehow be both, and worked together so well, in such an incredibly satisfying way. Honestly puzzles like these are what make a specific MH memorable to me, and this was just... *chefskiss*

[^19]: It's my self described term for "Puzzles that reveal more and more as you hack at each outer layer". [Nutraumatic from MH21](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2021/puzzle/nutraumatic/) is my eternal favourite.

[^20]: Shout out to [Math 1001003 from MH21](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2021/puzzle/math-1001003/) (now my 2nd favourite puzzle in this category) and [Ice Fishing from ECPH](https://ecph.site/puzzle/icefishing.html), another excellent example.

* The meta **[Factory Floor Meta : The Blueprint](https://puzzlefactory.place/factory-floor/the-blueprint)** <span class="spoiler">Just a super cool "Did they really pull this off" moment, and a meta that just brilliantly comes together. I think this is just a teammate staple now, an awfully constrained meta that somehow works despite all odds. I have extremely fond memories of Teammate 20's capstone [(link)](https://2020.teammatehunt.com/games) as well as Teammate 21's "Hall of Mirrors" meta [(link)](https://2021.teammatehunt.com/puzzles/hall-of-mirrors) in the same vein.</span> 

* The meta **[Mate's Meta](https://puzzlefactory.place/factory-floor/mates-meta)** <span class="spoiler">In the exact same category as the Factory Floor meta, just marginally less "mind-bendy". In case it's not obvious yet, I'm a sucker for "clean" clever metas, especially ones that constrain the feeders in interesting ways.</span> This was not a "long" 'meta' (in fact, we destroyed it within 72 mins)[^21] but damn if it was not hella fun and satisfying. I enjoyed every part of the solve, and how we kept getting ahas after ahas on this.

[^21]: This is something I'm actually very proud of, knowing that our team now has the "solving capabilities" to "locust swarm" a puzzle in ways I've mostly only heard of[^22]. Everything was getting worked at, at once, and somehow it all kept coming together, which just looked magnificent. Definitely a puzzling "core memory" for me. (And the fact that we were top-10 fastest to crack this meta doesn't hurt).

[^22]: Technically I have seen it once or twice, most notably when doing "cross-team" group solves with multiple supersolvers, or that one time I got to beta-test MSPH 21 (Technically a subset of the first). But it's a feeling that "hits different" when seeing Cryptics or people I expect to be amazing anyway, versus "my type of puzzles" or "people I've been solving with".

* The **Meta of [REDACTED]hole** <span class="spoiler">Talking about the round itself is a spoiler, so off in tags you go. We postsolved all of it, and I enjoyed practically every meta of the Wyrmhole round [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/wyrmhole), for one reason or the other. **The Legend** [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/the-legend) was neat, and I particularly enjoyed attempting this in Sheets. **The Scheme** [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/the-scheme) had us OBLITERATE the meta (8 min solve time wooo! Fastest team by far, though postsolved). **Lost At Sea** [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/lost-at-sea) I practically solo-ed, pretty much nailing every single aha there was to be found. I'm very proud of our 90 min solve time (4th fastest booyah!) on this. **Collage** [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/collage-copy) is a super cheeky "This was a meta?" that I appreciated. And the Round meta **Period of Wyrm** [(link)](https://puzzlefactory.place/factory-floor/period-of-wyrm) was just my favourite AI meta. The "real vs imaginary answers" aha was a major "Mind=Blown" moment, and I enjoyed all of the solve path for this, even though my teammates carried me here. It was just a cool-af meta in a cool-af round.</span>

* **[World's Largest Logic Puzzle](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/worlds-largest-logic-puzzle)** This is the other big Lotus puzzle of this MH.[^19] <span class="spoiler">Another teammate did ALMOST ALL of the heavy lifting and solve on this, while I cheered and kept giving insights and trying to assist. It was extravagant, it was over the top, and it was beautiful. The insights just kept coming one after the other, there was enough scope to continuously make deductions there; but mostly... I just love seeing "This puzzle has multi-million cells, deal with it" as a puzzle category</span>[^30] The solve was satisfying, and the puzzle was just having a perfect "cool" factor. I loved it.

[^30]: Shout out to [Replication from MH16](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2016/puzzle/replication/) and [The World's Tallest Cryptic from MH08](http://puzzles.mit.edu/2008/world_s_tallest_cryptic/answer/), two excellent examples of this genre.

* **Puzzles I really enjoyed** (and worked on). [Collage](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/collage) <span class="spoiler">Instant "Get the whole team here" moment. It was suuuper fun, and an improvement on Word Wide Web from Teammate 20 [(link)](https://2020.teammatehunt.com/puzzles/word-wide-web) in every way. I love this puzzle category</span>. [Interpretive Art](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/interpretive-art) <span class="spoiler">Another riot of a puzzle to figure out. It was just super hilarious all round. 10/10 would recommend</span>. [Flooded Caves](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/flooded-caves) <span class="spoiler">I solved half of the cave puzzles, and they were nice. Another teammate was more of an "Isaac" fan than me so they did all the ahas. But the puzzle was fun, satisfying, and I really enjoyed the end.</span>[^23] [Graph It](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/graph-it) <span class="spoiler">The puzzle presentation was simple, the puzzle solve-path was simple, and we ended up basically having one of our teammates solve it solo. But it was a clever puzzle (and I learnt something new) and kept giving us "Wait really, this works?" moments, which was cool</span>

[^23]: <span class="spoiler">Though I HAVE played "Four Souls" (the Isaac board game), so technically I'm part of the fandom too :D Please completely disregard the fact that I wouldn't have been able to solve this puzz with just Four Souls knowledge, nor the fact that I didn't know BoI was an actual separate game before this puzz.</span>

* **Other puzzles that are worth checking out**. [Inscription](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/inscription) <span class="spoiler">I'm not a cryptic guy, but I enjoyed doing the sheet formulae setup for my team to devour this one. It's a really cool idea</span>.[^24] [Brain Freeze](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/brain-freeze) <span class="spoiler">Once again, I assisted my team with the formulae setup to automate this. It's just clever and pays off well.</span>.[^24] [One of the puzzles of All Time](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/one-of-the-puzzles-of-all-time) <span class="spoiler">This puzzle has no rights being as hilarious as it is.</span> [Hall of Archaeology](https://interestingthings.museum/puzzles/hall-of-archaeology) <span class="spoiler">Public access not available yet, but soon hopefully. This puzzle was very relaxing to attack with my teammates</span>. [Hall of Innovation (the entire round)](https://interestingthings.museum/rounds/innovation). <span class="spoiler">I was not as involved, so no comments, but just a fun round</span>. [Tissues](https://puzzlefactory.place/factory-floor/tissues) <span class="spoiler">I enjoyed the ahas that kept popping up, and the "neatness" that rounded up the entire thing. Plus, I solved the logic puzzle at end, so clearly it's a cool puzz</span> [Pixel Art](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/pixel-art) <span class="spoiler">My teammates did most of the work for this, and I just contributed sheet-formulae, but it was a fun puzzle that worked very nicely.</span>[^24] [Dispel the Bees](https://puzzlefactory.place/puzzles/dispel-the-bees) <span class="spoiler">"Simple" but fun puzzle, though I wish it wasn't so unchecked. One of the classic "I know what to do, but it's hard" puzzle. We took several tries to get it right, but it was cool.</span> 

[^24]: I think I'm starting to notice a theme here lmao. Have I flanderized as just my team's "sheet formulae" guy? :P 

## An Aside about the AI rounds

I liked several of the risks taken this MH, and found all the AI rounds pretty interesting af.

I've already talked about the round named <span class="spoiler">Wyrmhole</span> and why <span class="spoiler">every single meta there clicked with me. It's also a round which brought back fond memories of Nano Round from MH21 [(link)](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2021/round/giga/), and that's always a good sign.</span>[^26] The AI round named <span class="spoiler">ABCDE</span> was really cool in terms of <span class="spoiler">sheer "Hahahha wait what" factor alone, but the round constraint necessarily led to some really cool solve paths for individual puzzles (specifically how the answer is formatted).</span> The AI round named <span class="spoiler">Conjuri</span>, I found to be <span class="spoiler">quite pleasing and fun, "reveal" and "presentation" wise. It was cool, and again, brought back fond memories of Perpendicular Device from MH21, so another good sign.</span>

But the AI round I really wanted to talk about was <span class="spoiler">Ascent</span>, I personally think <span class="spoiler">The choice for going for "Different language/culture" each puzzle was bold and inspiring. Some of the puzzles were not my style, but others I found myself gaga-ing over like crazy.</span> Having mulled over this post for well over a week, I now realise that a lot of the puzzles this year I found "amazing" included a personal touch. Which makes for the camp I'm now on... <ins>"To be great, a puzzle doesn't need to cater to everyone, as long as it's **someone**'s favourite."</ins>[^25] And based off reports, a number of puzzles this round were exactly that. Not necessarily all, but enough that I'm really glad this round came to be. And I think that's why this round might be my favourite "innovation" of this year. So thank you, teammate.

[^25]: I "think" but cannot confirm that this sentiment has already been spoken (in a Puzzlehunt context) by people more prolific than I. Regardless, it's something I felt needed to be said. And after a very fitting and excellent [blogpost by CJ Quines](https://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/two-hundred-puzzles-4/) (about MH23 and how puzzlehunts are art), it'll be remiss if I didn't share my favourite monologue of all time, below.[^29]

[^29]: From Oathbringer, By Brandon Sanderson [Chapter: Epilogue] <span class="spoiler">"All great art is hated, It is obscenely difficult — if not impossible — to make something that nobody hates. Conversely, it is incredibly easy — if not expected — to make something that nobody loves."</span> ... <span class="spoiler">"This makes sense, if you think about it. Art is about emotion, examination, and going places people have never gone before to discover and investigate new things. The only way to create something that nobody hates is to ensure that it can’t be loved either. Remove enough spice from soup, and you’ll just end up with water.”</span> ... <span class="spoiler">"Human taste is as varied as human fingerprints, Nobody will like everything, everybody dislikes something, someone loves that thing you hate — but at least being hated is better than nothing. To risk metaphor, a grand painting is often about contrast: brightest brights, darkest darks. Not grey mush. That a thing is hated is not proof that it’s great art, but the lack of hatred is certainly proof that it is not."</span> ... <span class="spoiler">"The question becomes, how many people need to love a piece of art to make it worthwhile? If you’re inevitably going to inspire hate, then how much enjoyment is needed to balance out the risk?"</span> ... <span class="spoiler">"I think, in answer to my question… I think it only takes one."</span>

[^26]: I've solved 3 MHs live now ([MH21](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2021/), [MH22](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2022/) and now MH23) and postsolved three more ([MH15](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2015/), [MH16](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2016/) and [MH20](https://puzzles.mit.edu/2020/)).[^27] Of these, absolutely no points on guessing which MH has been my favourite based on how much I talk about it. <span class="spoiler">Spoilers, it's MH21.</span> Based off other people's opinions, I think it majorly comes down to the "first" MH someone sees, because it's the first "out of the extraordinary" hunt people often see; but I wager it's also because of how much it correlated with my tastes[^28] and the personal involvement I had with that solve.[^27] Either way, it was just a GOOD MH that I will remember (for multiple reasons) for years, and therefore, also my personal yardstick to measure all future MHs with. So... There's that.

[^28]: Or, from another point of view... How much of my "tastes" in puzzling were defined by MH21.

[^27]: For some definition of the word "solved" anyway. My team solved all of these hunts, and I personally had different degrees of involvement with them. (Ranging from MH16, where I barely remember most of the hunt; to MH21, where I contributed to the solve of 80-90% of the puzzles). Some of these might be good MHs to attempt a solo-solve of, later, at some point of time, but that's putting the cart before the horse.

## Conclusion

Overall, I'm fairly happy with the MH, and a lot happier now that I got to return to several puzzles to talk about them. I had thoughts and strong feelings about a number of "overarching" things, but there were quite a LOT of puzzles that really delivered. Ergo, there's more than a couple puzzles that'll end up in my "Tim keeps talking about it all the time" list. And that's enough for me to be really happy with MH22.

## import references as rf